Authored by Riaz Mohamed & Raghu Pemmaraju

VMware Advanced Customer Engagements (ACE) Team

April 2020

Table of Contents
=================

[Introduction](#introduction)

[Personas and Roles](#personas-and-roles)

[Role Definitions](#role-definitions)

[Enterprise PKS roles](#enterprise-pks-roles)

[Kubernetes Roles:](#kubernetes-roles)

[PKS RBAC](#pks-rbac)

[Harbor Roles](#harbor-roles)

[Personas](#personas)

[Identity Management Endpoints](#identity-management-endpoints)

[Group Definitions](#group-definitions)

[LDAP -- As an Identity Endpoint](#ldap-as-an-identity-endpoint)

[Required LDAP Groups Configuration](#required-ldap-groups-configuration)

[Setup Users and Groups](#setup-users-and-groups)

[Create Users](#create-users)

[Assign Users to Groups](#assign-users-to-groups)

[EPMC LDAP settings](#_Toc37760687)

[Configure Users and Groups from EPMC](#configure-users-and-groups-from-epmc)

[Map LDAP Group to PKS Admin roles](#map-ldap-group-to-pks-admin-roles)

[Map LDAP Group to PKS Manage roles](#map-ldap-group-to-pks-manage-roles)

[Map LDAP Group to PKS Read roles](#map-ldap-group-to-pks-read-roles)

[Login to a PKS](#login-to-a-pks-revisit)

[NON EPMC DEPLOYMENT](#non-epmc-deployment)

[PKS LDAP Integration](#_Toc37760694)

[Configuring Groups in UAA](#_Toc37760695)

[OpsMan LDAP Integration](#_Toc37760696)

[OpsMan RBAC group](#opsman-rbac-group)

[OpsMan Tile LDAP settings](#opsman-tile-ldap-settings)

[Azure Active Directory as a SAML Identity Endpoint](#azure-active-directory-as-a-saml-identity-endpoint)

[Prerequisites](#prerequisites)

[Configure SAML in Azure AD](#configure-saml-in-azure-ad)

[Claims](#claims)

[UAA Scopes for Enterprise PKS Users](#uaa-scopes-for-enterprise-pks-users)

[Sign on using Enterprise PKS CLI](#sign-on-using-enterprise-pks-cli)

[Troubleshooting:](#troubleshooting)

[Harbor Identity Management](#harbor-identity-management)

[Harbor AD/LDAP as an identity Management end point](#harbor-adldap-as-an-identity-management-end-point)

[Group definitions](#group-definitions-1)

[Harbor LDAP configuration](#harbor-ldap-configuration)

[RBAC Authorization to K8 Clusters](#rbac-authorization-to-k8-clusters)

[Create Bindings](#create-bindings)

[Roles And Role Bindings](#roles-and-role-bindings)

[KubeConfig](#kubeconfig)

Introduction
============

In this document, we provide an overview of Enterprise PKS Roles and
Responsibility and detail steps to configure the supported Enterprise
PKS (PKS) identity providers. It is essential to understand the options
available when configuring Identity management for PKS (PKS) to ensure
the principle of least privileges are applied, and authorized access is
provided to the users to ensure the integrity and security of PKS and
PKS managed Kubernetes clusters. The steps provided are based on PKS 1.6
and above. The steps here apply to installing and configuring PKS using
PKS Management Console (EPMC) or a standalone installation.

PKS consists of several components that require careful consideration to
provide authentication and authorization. PKS users can gain access to
PKS Control Plane, and PKS managed Kubernetes clusters using the OpenID
Connect provider called User Account and Authentication (UAA). UAA is an
OAuth2 provider issues tokens to PKS and Kubernetes cluster
administrators and users with the appropriate roles. Roles can be
cluster administrator, developer, or someone with custom access.

We discuss all the necessary configuration steps in this document,
starting with a table that shows all of the PKS components that require
user access. PKS supports three types of identity management: endpoints,
local accounts, LDAP and SAML integrations.


 ------------------------------------------------------------------
| **Component**    | **User Access**  | **API** | **User**         |
| ---------------- | ---------------- | ------- | ---------------- |
| Enterprise PKS Management Console (EPMC)   | Local only (EPMC  1.7 will support LDAP and SAML) |         | root             |
| OpsMan           | Local or LDAP or SAML     |         | admin(Found in EPMC metadata)|
| Bosh             | Local or LDAP or SAMLSAML |         | admin(Found in EPMC metadata)            |
| PKS              | 1. Local  Account <br>2. Integrate to LDAP or SAML    | pks     | For local accounts admin (Found in EPMC metadata)<br>LDAP users       |
| K8 clusters      | Integrate to  LDAP or SAML    | K8 API  | LDAP users       |
| Harbor           | 1. Local  Account   2. Integrate to LDAP or SAML    | Harbor     | For local accounts admin (Found in EPMC metadata) <br>LDAP users   |


EMPC - VMware Enterprise PKS Management Console provides a unified
installation experience for deploying Enterprise Pivotal Container
Service (Enterprise PKS) to vSphere.Â 

OpsMan - Platform provides a set of APIs and a graphical interface to
manage the deployment and upgrade of PKS components

Bosh - Unifies release engineering, deployment, and lifecycle management
of small and large-scale PKS clusters

PKS - is an enterprise Kubernetes platform, architected for rapid
results, scaling, and reliability on any infrastructure

K8 Cluster access - The recommended approach to access Kubernetes
clusters provisioned via PKS is to use Role-based access control (RBAC)
to regulate access to computer or network resources based on the roles
of individual users within an enterprise. More information can be found
[here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

Harbor - Harbor is an open source container image registry that secures
images with role-based access control, scans images for vulnerabilities,
and signs images as trusted

Personas and Roles
==================

An organization that deploys PKS should keep in mind three types
components and personas:

1.  PKS Control Plane

    a.  Administrators

    b.  Users/Developers

2.  Kubernetes Clusters

    a.  Administrators

    b.  Developers

    c.  Users

3.  Harbor Registry

    a.  Administrators

    b.  Users/Developers

Let us go into the details.

Role Definitions
----------------

Roles are a set of defined rights that are assumed by users associated
to it to perform specific operations. Role-based access control (RBAC)
is a method of regulating access to computer or network resources based
on the roles of individual users within your organization.

### Enterprise PKS roles

PKS defines a set of roles that are applicable to the PKS control plane.
PKS access gives users the ability to deploy and manage Kubernetes
clusters. This includes creating clusters, upgrading clusters, deleting
clusters, creating network profiles, scaling cluster nodes etc. There
are three roles or UAA profiles within PKS:

**pks.clusters.manage:** Accounts with this scope can create and access
their own clusters

**pks.clusters.admin**: Accounts with this scope can create and access
all clusters.

**pks.clusters.admin.read**: Accounts with this scope can access any
information about all clusters except for cluster credentials.

It is straightforward that pks.clusters.admin should be assigned to an
individual or group responsible for all of the clusters created by the
PKS control plane.

You can assign pks.clusters.manage is role that you want them to create
clusters, but not let them view clusters they have not created or those
created by someone with pks.clusters.admin role. Be careful who is given
access to pks.clusters.manage and pks.clusters.admin

pks.clusters.admin.read role is best for a developer. With this role,
they can have readonly access to all of the clusters and they can issue
'pks get-kubeconfig' command to get kubeconfig for the Kubenetes cluster
they have access.

### Kubernetes Roles:

An RBAC Role or ClusterRole contains rules that represent a set of
permissions. Permissions are purely additive (there are no "deny"
rules).

A Role always sets permissions within a particular namespace; when you
create a Role, you have to specify the namespace it belongs in.

ClusterRole, by contrast, is a non-namespaced resource. The resources
have different names (Role and ClusterRole) because a Kubernetes object
always has to be either namespaced or not namespaced; it can't be both.

ClusterRoles have several uses. You can use a ClusterRole to:

-   define permissions on namespaced resources and be granted within
    individual namespace(s)

-   define permissions on namespaced resources and be granted across all
    namespaces

-   define permissions on cluster-scoped resources

If you want to define a role within a namespace, use a Role; if you want
to define a role cluster-wide, use a ClusterRole.

### PKS RBAC

The diagram below shows how different personals gain access to PKS and
Kubernetes.

![](media/media/image1.png){width="1.2229735345581803in"
height="0.41891841644794403in"}![](media/media/image1.png){width="1.2229735345581803in"
height="0.41891841644794403in"}

![](media/media/image3.png){width="0.7094597550306212in"
height="0.309925634295713in"}

![](media/media/image3.png){width="1.2967344706911637in" height="0.5in"}

### Harbor Roles:

Harbor manages images through projects. You provide access to these
images to users by including the users in projects and assigning one of
the following roles to them.

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image5.tiff){width="7.5in"
height="3.8513517060367453in"}

**Limited Guest**: A Limited Guest does not have full read privileges
for a project. They can pull images but cannot push, and they cannot see
logs or the other members of a project. For example, you can create
limited guests for users from different organizations who share access
to a project.

**Guest:** Guest has read-only privilege for a specified project. They
can pull and retag images, but cannot push.

**Developer:** Developer has read and write privileges for a project.

**Master:** Master has elevated permissions beyond those of 'Developer'
including the ability to scan images, view replications jobs, and delete
images and helm charts.

**ProjectAdmin:** When creating a new project, you will be assigned the
"ProjectAdmin" role to the project. Besides read-write privileges, the
"ProjectAdmin" also has some management privileges, such as adding and
removing members, starting a vulnerability scan.

Besides the above roles, there are two system-level roles:

**Harbor system administrator:** "Harbor system administrator" has the
most privileges. In addition to the privileges mentioned above, "Harbor
system administrator" can also list all projects, set an ordinary user
as administrator, delete users and set vulnerability scan policy for all
images. The public project "library" is also owned by the administrator.

**Anonymous:** When a user is not logged in, the user is considered as
an "Anonymous" user. An anonymous user has no access to private projects
and has read-only access to public projects.

Personas
--------

To help you understand how we plan the various personas found in an
organization, we will use the following personas.

**Alana**\
Alana is a PKS Administrator and Operator.Â This person is involved in
the following aspects of Pivotal Container Service:

-   Initial PKS Deployment and Installation activities

-   PKS platform upgrades and systems patches

-   PKS Tile Administration and the PKS control plans

-   SettingÂ PKSÂ Role-Based Access Control for the PKS control
    plane.Â This person provides access and authorization to any
    underlying PKS Cluster Administrators.

**Cody**\
Cody could create a PKS cluster and become its PKS cluster Admin.Â This
person is involved in the following aspects of Pivotal Container
Service:

-   Can create a PKS cluster through mechanism of pks cli:Â pks
    create-cluster \...

-   Can be the PKS Cluster Administrator.

-   SetsÂ KubernetesÂ Role-Based Access Control to a specific PKS Cluster
    for End-users and Developers within the Kubernetes control plane.

-   Assume the role of a Harbor system administrator

-   Setup User access to harbor projects

**Naomi**\
Naomi is an end-user or developer on a Kubernetes cluster.Â This person
is involved in the following aspects of Pivotal Container Service:

-   Access a Kubernetes API for the cluster they have access to

-   Can use theÂ kubectlÂ cli,Â [*Kubernetes
    Dashboard*](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard#kubernetes-dashboard),
    or other Kubernetes API clients to interact with a specific PKS
    Cluster

-   Harbor Developer access

**Scott**

Scott is an application developer.Â This person is involved in the
following aspects of Pivotal Container Service:

-   Access a Kubernetes API for the cluster they have access to with
    specific granular roles

-   Can use theÂ kubectlÂ cli,Â [*Kubernetes
    Dashboard*](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard#kubernetes-dashboard),
    or other Kubernetes API clients to interact with a specific PKS
    Cluster

-   Harbor Developer access

Identity Management Endpoints
=============================

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image6.tiff){width="7.5in"
height="4.194444444444445in"}

PKS supports the following identity management endpoints

-   Local User Database -- Uses UAA

-   AD/LDAP

-   SAML Identity provider

Harbor supports the following identity management endpoints

-   Harbor internal user management

-   AD/LDAP

-   UAA in Pivotal Container Service

Group Definitions
=================

This section defines the usergroups we will be creating within the
different identity management endpoints to associate the different
personas

+------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+
| **Group**        | **Persona** | **Role**                          |
+==================+=============+===================================+
| pksclusteradmin  | alana       | pks.cluster.admin                 |
+------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+
| pksclustermanage | cody        | pks.cluster.manage                |
+------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+
| pksclusterread   | naomi\      | pks.cluster.read                  |
|                  | scott       |                                   |
+------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+
| k8clusteradmins  | naomi       | cluster-admin                     |
+------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+
| k8developers     | scott       | create, list , get on pods in     |
|                  |             | namespace dataengg                |
+------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+
| harboradmins     | cody        | Harbor system administrator       |
|                  |             |                                   |
|                  | naomi       |                                   |
+------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+
| harborusers      | scott       | Harbor developer                  |
+------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+

LDAP -- As an Identity Endpoint
===============================

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image7.png){width="7.533972003499563in"
height="5.351350612423447in"}

This section provides the steps to set up LDAP that we would be using in
the later sections to configure PKS components.

For this setup, we would be using Microsoft Active Directory (AD) as the
LDAP provider.

The document assumes to have all users under

CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local

The groups definitions are created under

OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local

NOTE: You could have different OU where your user's exists eg.
IT(OU)/Offices(OU)/Boston

Required LDAP Groups Configuration
----------------------------------

This section provides an overview on setting up LDAP groups and users
that we would be using in the later sections. The LDAP Groups settings
will be as follows:

Setup Users and Groups 
----------------------

This section provides the steps to create ou's, groups, users and assign
users to groups.

Create Groups

These groups will be used to configure access to different components
within the PKS infrastructure.

**Step 1**: Select New Organizational Unit:

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image8.png){width="7.0309284776902885in"
height="4.006327646544182in"}

**\
**

**Step 2:** Enter Name e.g. Infra and click OK. The OU must be created:

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image9.png){width="6.804124015748031in"
height="3.854410542432196in"}

**Step 3:** Drill down to Infra and create another OU pks:

![A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated](media/media/image10.png){width="5.577319553805775in"
height="2.6073972003499564in"}

**Step 4:** Create Groups under pks -- Select pks and click on New Group

**\
Step 5:** Create the pksclusteradmin group

![A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated](media/media/image11.png){width="7.5in"
height="4.479861111111111in"}

**Step 6:** Create the other groups under the pks OU --
pksclustermanage, pksclusterread, k8clusteradmins, k8developers,
harboradmins, harborusers

![A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated](media/media/image12.png){width="7.5in"
height="4.483333333333333in"}

### Create Users 

Create users under each BU as per the following table

**Step 1:** Create the following users under CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local

NOTE: You could create your own org structure for users.

**Step 2:** Enter 'alana' for both Full Name and User SamAccountName,
Select the option of password never expires and enter a password (E.g.
\<password\>)

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image13.png){width="7.5in"
height="4.495138888888889in"}

**\
Step 3:** Repeat the above steps to create the other personas cody,
naomi, scott,

### Assign Users to Groups

**Step 1:** Drill down to Infra/pks/pksclusteradmin group

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image14.png){width="7.5in"
height="4.980555555555555in"}

**Step 2:** Under members click on Add

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/media/image15.png){width="6.630228565179353in"
height="3.949283683289589in"}

**Step 3:** Enter 'alana' and click on check names

![A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated](media/media/image16.png){width="6.105882545931759in"
height="3.6680522747156608in"}

**\
**

**Step 4:** Click on OK

**Step 5:** Select the appropriate group and add users as per the table

  ----------------------------
  Group              Persona
  ------------------ ---------
  pksclusteradmin    alana

  pksclustermanage   cody

  pksclusterread     naomi\
                     scott

  k8clusteradmins    naomi

  k8developers       scott

  harboradmins       cody

  harborusers        scott
  ----------------------------

PKS LDAP Attributes

This section covers the basic LDAP attributes required to configure PKS
for LDAP integration. Use an LDAP Browser like LDAPSoft AD Browser if
not familiar with how to get values for some of these attributes.

LDAP Username : CN=Administrator,CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local

**User Search Base:**

Select 'Users', right click and Copy DN

CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local

![A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated](media/media/image17.png){width="7.5in"
height="4.263888888888889in"}

**\
**

**Group Search Base**

The groups definitions are created under

OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image18.png){width="7.5in" height="3.96875in"}

EPMC LDAP settings
==================

This section shows the configuration settings on EPMC to install PKS. To
configure LDAP through EPMC, select AD/LDAP as the Identity management
Service during PKS installation through EPMC.

NOTE: Since EPMC is the management console, we would require to only
configure LDAP for PKS. In 'traditional' (tiles based) deployments LDAP
would need to be configured for OpsMan as well.

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image19.png){width="7.5in"
height="3.6798611111111112in"}

Example LDAP settings provided to EPMC. Please update with your values
and use during installation.

  **Description**                 **Value**
  ------------------------------- --------------------------------------------
  Server URL (Only takes an IP)   ldap://192.168.110.10
  LDAP Username                   CN=Administrator,CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local
  LDAP Password                   \<password\>
  User Search Base                CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local
  User Search Filter              sAMAccountName={0}
  Group Search Base               OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local
  Email                           mail

-   Configure Created Clusters to use UAA as the OIDC provider --
    Enabled

-   Once LDAP is configured generate configuration and apply to deploy
    and configure PKS with LDAP

For Harbor LDAP integration on the Harbor section of EPMC, select Log in
Harbor with LDAP users.

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image20.png){width="7.5in"
height="3.995833333333333in"}

NOTE: If this is not selected in the initial install, the Harbor tile
will need to be deleted through Opsman and redeployed with the LDAP
integration enabled.

A UAA admin user can assign the following UAA scopes to Enterprise PKS
users

> **pks.clusters.manage**: Accounts with this scope can create and
> access their own clusters.\
> **pks.clusters.admin**: Accounts with this scope can create and access
> all clusters.\
> **pks.clusters.admin.read:** Accounts with this scope can access any
> information about all clusters except for cluster credentials.

Configure Users and Groups from EPMC
------------------------------------

Once the deployment is complete, click on Identity Management on the
EPMC Console and select the groups tab

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image21.png){width="6.5in"
height="1.8541666666666667in"}

### Map LDAP Group to PKS Admin roles

Click on Add Group

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image22.png){width="7.5in"
height="4.013194444444444in"}

Group Name - DN of the group that need to be added with pks admin roles
- CN=pksclusteradmin,OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local

### Map LDAP Group to PKS Manage roles

Click on Add Group, select pks.cluster.manage as role

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image23.png){width="7.5in"
height="4.064583333333333in"}

Group Name - DN of the group that need to be added with pks manage
roles. - CN=pksclustermanage,OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local

### Map LDAP Group to PKS Read roles

Click on Add Group, select pks.cluster.read as role

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image23.png){width="7.5in"
height="4.064583333333333in"}

Group Name - DN of the group that need to be added with pks manage
roles. - CN=pksclusterreadonly,OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image24.png){width="6.364705818022747in"
height="2.27832895888014in"}

Login to a PKS (Revisit)
------------------------

pks login -a pks.corp.local -u \<user-in-ldap\> \--skip-ssl-validation

Login to pks as alana and create a cluster, this should be possible

pks login -a pks.corp.local -u alana -k

Login to pks as cody and create a cluster, should be possible but cody

pks login -a pks.corp.local -u cody -k

Login to pks as scott or naomi. The k8 developers will only be able to
view clusters in the system but not do any admin tasks on the clusters.

NON EPMC DEPLOYMENT
===================

In a non EPMC deployment each product on the installation requires to be
separately configured to use LDAP.

PKS LDAP Integration 
--------------------

The following section covers LDAP integration on the PKS tile:

-   Log into OpsMan and select the Enterprise PKS Tile

-   Select the UAA section and configure the following

Note: Enable UAA as OIDC Provider

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image25.png){width="5.95294072615923in"
height="3.1590015310586175in"}

Example LDAP settings provided to EPMC. Please update with your values
and use during installation.

  **Description**               **Values**
  ----------------------------- --------------------------------------------
  Current Decryption Password   \<password\>
  Server URL                    ldap://controlcenter.corp.local
  LDAP Username                 CN=Administrator,CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local
  LDAP Password                 \<password\>
  User Search Base              CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local
  User Search Filter            sAMAccountName={0}
  Group Search Base             OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local
  Group Search Filter           Member{0}

Configuring Groups in UAA
-------------------------

A UAA admin user can assign the following UAA scopes to Enterprise PKS
users

> **pks.clusters.manage**: Accounts with this scope can create and
> access their own clusters.\
> **pks.clusters.admin**: Accounts with this scope can create and access
> all clusters.\
> **pks.clusters.admin.read**: Accounts with this scope can access any
> information about all clusters except for cluster credentials.

To grant Enterprise PKS access to an external LDAP group, perform the
following steps:

1.  Log in as the UAA admin using the procedure inÂ [[Log in as a UAA
    > Admin]{.underline}](https://docs.pivotal.io/pks/1-7/manage-users.html).

2.  To assign theÂ pks.clusters.manageÂ scope to all users in an LDAP
    > group, run the following command:

> uaac group map \--name pks.clusters.manage GROUP-DISTINGUISHED-NAME
>
> WhereÂ GROUP-DISTINGUISHED-NAMEÂ is the LDAP Distinguished Name (DN) for
> the group.
>
> For example:
>
> uaac group map \--name pks.clusters.manage
> cn=pksclustermanage,ou=pks,ou=infra,dc=corp,dc=local
>
> For more information about LDAP DNs, see theÂ [[LDAP DNs and
> RDNs]{.underline}](https://ldap.com/ldap-dns-and-rdns/)Â in the LDAP
> documentation.

3.  To assign theÂ pks.clusters.adminÂ scope to all users in an LDAP
    > group, run the following command:

> uaac group map \--name pks.clusters.admin GROUP-DISTINGUISHED-NAME
>
> WhereÂ GROUP-DISTINGUISHED-NAMEÂ is the LDAP Distinguished Name (DN) for
> the group.
>
> For example:
>
> uaac group map \--name pks.clusters.admin
> cn=pksclusteradmin,ou=pks,ou=infra,dc=corp,dc=local

4.  To assign theÂ pks.clusters.readÂ scope to all users in an LDAP group,
    > run the following command:

> uaac group map \--name pks.clusters.read GROUP-DISTINGUISHED-NAME
>
> WhereÂ GROUP-DISTINGUISHED-NAMEÂ is the LDAP Distinguished Name (DN) for
> the group.
>
> For example:
>
> uaac group map \--name pks.clusters.read
> cn=pksclusterreadonly,ou=pks,ou=infra,dc=corp,dc=local

OpsMan LDAP Integration
-----------------------

OpsMan LDAP integration requires an OpsMan RBAC group, which we had
configured when setting up LDAP. Copy the DN to this group similar to
what was done for the 'pksadmin' group.

### 

### OpsMan RBAC group

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/media/image26.png){width="6.5in"
height="3.845833333333333in"}

 

### OpsMan Tile LDAP settings

Access the OpsMan configuration pane via Admin setting that can be found
on the right corner

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image27.png){width="6.5in"
height="3.529166666666667in"}![A screenshot of a cell phone Description
automatically generated](media/media/image28.png){width="6.5in"
height="3.647222222222222in"}

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Description**               **Values**
  ----------------------------- ------------------------------------------------
  Current Decryption Password   \<password\>

  Server URL                    ldap://controlcenter.corp.local

  LDAP Username                 CN=Administrator,CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local

  LDAP Password                 \<password\>

  User Search Base              OU=Offices,OU=IT,DC=corp,DC=local

  User Search Filter            sAMAccountName={0}

  Group Search Base             OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local

  Group Search Filter           Member{0}

  Group Max Search Depth        10

  LDAP RBAC Admin Group         CN=opsmanage,OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local\
                                The group where the opsman users are present
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Azure Active Directory as a SAML Identity Endpoint
==================================================

Given below are the detailed steps of configuring single-sign-on (SSO)
between Azure Active Directory and VMware Enterprise PKS

These steps are found
[here](https://docs.pivotal.io/pks/1-6/azure-ad-sso-config.html)

### Prerequisites

To configure Azure AD to designate Enterprise PKS as a service provider,
you must have an Azure AD Global Administrator account.

### Configure SAML in Azure AD

To configure Azure AD as a SAML identity provider for Enterprise PKS, do
the following:

-   Log in to Azure AD as a Global Administrator.

-   Navigate toÂ **Azure Active Directory**.

-   UnderÂ **Create**, clickÂ **Enterprise application**.

![Enterprise application
button](media/media/image29.png){width="3.356286089238845in"
height="2.0945942694663167in"}

-   UnderÂ Add your own app, selectÂ Non-gallery application.

-   Enter aÂ NameÂ and clickÂ Add.

-   Navigate toÂ Azure Active DirectoryÂ \>Â Enterprise applications.

![Enterprise applications
tab](media/media/image30.png){width="3.553713910761155in"
height="2.209459755030621in"}

Click your app and then clickÂ Single sign-on.

![Single sign-on
tab](media/media/image31.png){width="5.236111111111111in"
height="2.574324146981627in"}

-   UnderÂ Select a single sign-on method, selectÂ SAML.

![Single sign-on
pane](media/media/image32.png){width="4.790277777777778in"
height="3.0945942694663167in"}

-   UnderÂ Set up Single Sign-On with SAML, click the pencil icon
    forÂ Basic SAML Configuration.

![Basic SAML Configuration
button](media/media/image33.png){width="6.5in" height="2.21875in"}

Configure as per table below

+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| **Description**        | **Values**                                 |
+========================+============================================+
| Identifier (Entity ID) | EnterÂ PKS-API:8443.\                       |
|                        | For example:                               |
|                        |                                            |
|                        | api.pks.example.com:8443                   |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Reply URL              | EnterÂ https://                             |
|                        | PKS-API:8443/saml/SSO/alias/PKS-API:8443.\ |
|                        | For example:                               |
|                        |                                            |
|                        | https://api.pks.example.com:84             |
|                        | 43/saml/SSO/alias/api.pks.example.com:8443 |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Sign on URL            | EnterÂ https://                             |
|                        | PKS-API:8443/saml/SSO/alias/PKS-API:8443.\ |
|                        | For example:                               |
|                        |                                            |
|                        | https://api.pks.example.com:84             |
|                        | 43/saml/SSO/alias/api.pks.example.com:8443 |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Identifier (Entity ID) | EnterÂ PKS-API:8443.\                       |
|                        | For example:                               |
|                        |                                            |
|                        | api.pks.example.com:8443                   |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Reply URL              | EnterÂ https://                             |
|                        | PKS-API:8443/saml/SSO/alias/PKS-API:8443.\ |
|                        | For example:                               |
|                        |                                            |
|                        | https://api.pks.example.com:84             |
|                        | 43/saml/SSO/alias/api.pks.example.com:8443 |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Sign on URL            | EnterÂ https://                             |
|                        | PKS-API:8443/saml/SSO/alias/PKS-API:8443.\ |
|                        | For example:                               |
|                        |                                            |
|                        | https://api.pks.example.com:84             |
|                        | 43/saml/SSO/alias/api.pks.example.com:8443 |
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+

Note:Â VMware recommends that you use the default settings for the fields
that are not referenced in the above table.

-   Click the pencil icon forÂ User Attributes &

![Basic SAML Configuration
button](media/media/image34.png){width="6.5in"
height="1.5756944444444445in"}

### ClaimsÂ  

-   Configure your user attributes and claims by doing the procedures in

Â [How to: Customize claims issued in the SAML token for enterprise
applications](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-saml-claims-customization)Â in
the Microsoft Azure documentation. By default, Enterprise PKS uses
theÂ EmailAddressÂ name identifier format.

![A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically
generated](media/media/image35.png){width="6.820168416447944in"
height="3.6418919510061243in"}

As shown above, do the following:

-   Click "Add a group claim"

-   Choose the option for Group Claims as "Groups assigned to the
    application"

-   If you chose "Source Attribute" as GroupID, then you will need to
    map GroupID(s) of the group(s) to the right objectID (as shown
    later).

-   Click on "Advanced Options" and "Customize the name of the group
    claim" with the Name "groups".

-   Save.

-   UnderÂ SAML Signing Certificate, copy and save the link address
    forÂ App Federation Metadata UrlÂ or downloadÂ Federation Metadata XML.
    You use the Azure AD metadata to configure SAML in the Enterprise
    PKS tile. For more information, see theÂ [Configure SAML as an
    Identity
    Provider](https://docs.pivotal.io/pks/1-6/installing-pks-azure.html#configure-saml)Â section
    ofÂ Installing Enterprise PKS on Azure.Â ![SAML Signing Certificate
    pane](media/media/image36.png){width="6.5in"
    height="2.1506944444444445in"}

-   If using Enterprise PKS Management Console or Opsman's PKS Title,
    use the following options to configure SAML Identity provider. Make
    sure that "External Group Atribute" is set to "groups" as configured
    in Azure. Once you save this, you will need to update PKS.

![A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically
generated](media/media/image37.png){width="6.633810148731409in"
height="4.087837926509186in"}

-   Configure your group attributes and claims by doing the procedures
    in theÂ [Configure group claims for SAML applications using SSO
    configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/hybrid/how-to-connect-fed-group-claims#configure-group-claims-for-saml-applications-using-sso-configuration)Â section
    ofÂ Configure group claims for applications with Azure Active
    Directory (Public Preview)Â in the Microsoft Azure documentation.

In the example below, we're associating all PKS Admins to the AD group,
"pksclusteradmins"

![A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically
generated](media/media/image38.png){width="6.560810367454068in"
height="3.350291994750656in"}

Below are details of pksclusteradmins attributes. This includes the
Object ID, that you will need to map in UAA to the appropriate group
(see below).

![A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically
generated](media/media/image39.png){width="6.782669510061242in"
height="3.675675853018373in"}

### 

### UAA Scopes for Enterprise PKS Users

Now that SAML configuration is complete in PKS and Azure, we need to map
the UAA scope to the right Azure AD Group. A UAA admin user can assign
the following UAA scopes to Enterprise PKS users:

**pks.clusters.manage:** Accounts with this scope can create and access
their own clusters.

**pks.clusters.admin**: Accounts with this scope can create and access
all clusters.

**pks.clusters.admin.read:** Accounts with this scope can access any
information about all clusters except for cluster credentials.

To grant Enterprise PKS access to a SAML group, perform the following
steps:

5.  Log in as the UAA admin using the procedure inÂ [[Log in as a UAA
    > Admin]{.underline}](https://docs.pivotal.io/pks/1-7/manage-users.html).

6.  Assign a PKS cluster scope to all users in a SAML group by running
    > the following command:

-   uaac group map \--name UAA-SCOPE SAML-GROUP \--origin SAML-ORIGIN

Where:

-   UAA-SCOPEÂ is one of the UAA scopes described above

-   SAML-GROUPÂ is name of your SAML identity provider group. In our
    example it is the object ID for pksclusteradmins which is
    4809484d-dc00-419a-83f4-f1301ae0765b

-   SAML-ORIGINÂ is the domain name for your SAML identity provider. To
    findÂ SAML-ORIGIN, click on the PKS tile,
    selectÂ SettingsÂ \>Â UAAÂ \>Â SAML, and locate theÂ Provider Name. In our
    example, it is azure (see above)

For example:

\$ uaac group map \--name pks.clusters.admin
4809484d-dc00-419a-83f4-f1301ae0765b ---origin azure

### Sign on using Enterprise PKS CLI 

Now you can issue the following command to sign on using SAML Single
Sign-on

pks login -a {pksapi.example.com} ---sso

![A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically
generated](media/media/image40.png){width="6.722222222222222in"
height="2.744557086614173in"}

Use a web browser and copy the URL to get the code as following and
click on "login with azure"

![A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically
generated](media/media/image41.png){width="4.331081583552056in"
height="2.706735564304462in"}

The first time you sign on you will get the following message:

![A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically
generated](media/media/image42.png){width="5.482615923009623in"
height="2.567567804024497in"}

![A screenshot of a computer screen Description automatically
generated](media/media/image43.png){width="6.168918416447944in"
height="2.946049868766404in"}

Use the code above to sign on...

### Troubleshooting: 

If you see the following error message, the mapping for UAA is not
correct or what is coming back in the SAML token is not correct.

The following steps can help determine how to resolve this:

Sign on using Chrome. Before hitting enter, right click and click on
'inspect' on the page.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](media/media/image44.png){width="6.5in" height="3.19375in"}

Copy the SAML Respose and go to samltool.com/decode.php

![A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated](media/media/image45.png){width="6.324324146981628in"
height="3.458593613298338in"}

Here you can see the attributes that are being returned including the
groups being returned and evaluated.

For example, In this case we noticed the groups attribute value is being
returned as ObjectID instead of the Name of the group. Given this
information, we were able to change the mapping to use the Object ID
instead of Name.

Harbor Identity Management
==========================

Harbor supports the following identity management endpoints

-   Harbor internal user management

-   AD/LDAP

-   UAA in Pivotal Container Service

### Harbor AD/LDAP as an identity Management end point 

Harbor Authentication mode needs to be enabled when installing PKS.

EPMC configuration, select Login harbor with LDAP users

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image47.png){width="7.5in"
height="4.089583333333334in"}

If not using EPMC, change the Authentication mode to LDAP : Login harbor
with LDAP users in the authentication section of the Harbor Registry
tile within opsman.

![A screenshot of a social media post Description automatically
generated](media/media/image48.png){width="7.5in"
height="3.904861111111111in"}

### 

### Group definitions

This section defines the usergroups we will be creating within the
different identity management endpoints to associate the different
personas to

+--------------+-------------+-----------------------------+
| **Group**    | **Persona** | **Role**                    |
+==============+=============+=============================+
| harboradmins | cody        | Harbor system administrator |
|              |             |                             |
|              | naomi       |                             |
+--------------+-------------+-----------------------------+
| harborusers  | scott       | Harbor developer            |
+--------------+-------------+-----------------------------+

The groups are created under OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local

### Harbor LDAP configuration

###  

-   Login to harbor as the admin user.

-   Navigate to the Configuration section

-   Select Authentication and the Authentication Mode as LDAP

> ![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
> generated](media/media/image49.png){width="7.5in"
> height="4.0569444444444445in"}

-   Configure LDAP as per the below table

  **Description**         **Values**                                                                                                                                                               **Description**
  ----------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  LDAP URL                controlcenter.corp.local                                                                                                                                                 LDAP hostname
  LDAP Search DN          CN=Administrator,CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local                                                                                                                               Service account that has read rights to LDAP
  LDAP Search Password    \<password\>                                                                                                                                                             Service account password
  LDAP Base DN            CN=Users,DC=corp,DC=local                                                                                                                                                DN where Users exist
  LDAP Filter\*           (&(objectCategory=Person)(sAMAccountName=\*)(\|(memberOf=CN=harboradmins,OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local)(memberOf=CN=harborusers,OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local)))   Add a filter that only queries users that belong to specific groups. Eg. harborusers and harboradmins
  LDAP UID                sAMAccountName                                                                                                                                                           Attribute name used to search user
  LDAP Scope              Subtree                                                                                                                                                                  
  LDAP Group Base DN      OU=pks,OU=Infra,DC=corp,DC=local                                                                                                                                         Base DN under which the harbor usergroups exist
  LDAP Group Filter                                                                                                                                                                                Filter to look up specific LDAP groups
  LDAP Group GID          cn                                                                                                                                                                       Attribute used in a search to match users , can be sAMAccountName
  LDAP Group Admin DN     cn=harboradmins,ou=pks,ou=infra,dc=corp,dc=local                                                                                                                         LDAP group that will have admin rights to Harbor
  LDAP Group Membership   memberOf                                                                                                                                                                 All members of this group will have admin access to harbor
  LDAP Group Scope        Subtree                                                                                                                                                                  

-   Save and Test LDAP server

-   Logout of harbor and try logging in as cody and scott

\*for a full list of LDAP Filter go to
<http://www.ldapexplorer.com/en/manual/109010000-ldap-filter-syntax.htm>

RBAC Authorization to K8 Clusters
=================================

This section describes the steps to configure PKS to perform
authentication against LDAP server so Developer can access their K8s
clusters (globally or via namespace).

PKS UAA integration with LDAP (Windows Active Directory) in order to
generate token-id (that\'s why the functionality is called UAA as OIDC
provider).

This token-id then allows the developer to access K8s Cluster using
kubectl.

PKS Control Plane VM is interacting with LDAP server here (K8s cluster
don\'t interact with LDAP server at all)

NOTE: Make sure that UAA as an OIDC provider is enabled

![A picture containing clock, stop, black, city Description
automatically generated](media/media/image50.tiff){width="7.5in"
height="2.804054024496938in"}

Create Bindings
---------------

NOTE: Change the values as per the environment

-   Login to the PKS API using the following command. Login as
    alana/cody who are pks api admins

-   Get credentials to the cluster

-   Create a namespace called 'dataengg' and run 5 replicas of nginix in
    it

### 

### 

### Roles and Role Bindings

A Role contains rules that represent a set of permissions. Permissions
are purely additive (there are no "deny" rules). A Role can be defined
within a namespace with aÂ Role, or cluster-wide with aÂ ClusterRole.

AÂ RoleÂ can only be used to grant access to resources within a single
namespace.

A Role binding grants the permissions defined in a Role to a user or set
of users. It holds a list of subjects (users, groups, or service
accounts), and a reference to the Role being granted. Permissions can be
granted within a namespace with aÂ RoleBinding, or cluster-wide with
aÂ ClusterRoleBinding.

#### Cluster Roles

-   Create a cluster role for certain resources with get, list and watch
    permissions

The following is an example of a cluster role for with permissions to
all resources

> PKS by default has a cluster-admin cluster role configured, this could
> be used instead.
>
> Copy the contents below to a file cluster-all-role.yaml
>
> kubectl apply -f cluster-all-role.yaml

The following is an example of a cluster role for certain resources with
get, list and watch permissions

> Copy the contents below to a file cluster-reader-role.yaml
>
> kubectl apply -f cluster-reader-role.yaml

#### 

#### Cluster Rolebinding

-   Create a cluster role binding for k8 cluster administrators. The
    persona associated with this role is naomi.

The cluster role referred here is cluster-admin that exists in pks by
default.

> Copy the contents to a file admin-cluster-binding.yaml
>
> NOTE: We are assigning the group 'k8clusteradmins' that is present in
> our LDAP configuration.

-   Logout of the pks using the pks cli

pks logout

![](media/media/image51.png){width="6.600976596675416in"
height="0.6736111111111112in"}

#### 

-   Retrieve the kube config for user

> To obtain kubeconfig for a selected cluster and a user, run the
> following command:

Eg. pks get-kubeconfig my-cluster -u naomi -a pks.corp.local -k

#### 

#### Test OIDC based access for 'k8administrators'

-   Retrieve the kubeconfig for persona naomi

-   Set context

> All pods running in the cluster should be visible

#### 

> ![A screenshot of text Description automatically
> generated](media/media/image52.png){width="7.195570866141733in"
> height="3.8826388888888888in"}

#### Create Roles

> Create a Role on the namespace dataengg which has reader permissions
> for pods and pod-logs.(get and list permissions). Copy the contents to
> a file role-dataengg.yaml

kubectl apply -f role-dataengg.yaml

#### Role binding for the Developer Role

-   Create a Role binding for the pksdev group to access the Roles
    defined in role-dataengg.yaml for the namespace dataengg

Copy the contents to a file dataengg-role-binding.yaml

> NOTE: We are assigning the group 'pksdev' that is present in our LDAP
> configuration

kubectl apply -f dataengg-role-binding.yaml

#### Test OIDC based access for 'k8developers

-   Retrieve the kubeconfig for persona naomi

-   Set context

-   List all pods running

This will result in an error since 'scott' is not an admin and has
specific permissions to on namespace dataengg

> Error from server (Forbidden): pods is forbidden:
>
> ![A close up of a device Description automatically
> generated](media/media/image53.png){width="6.600975503062117in"
> height="0.2777777777777778in"}

-   List pods running in the dataengg namespace

kubectl get po \--namespace dataengg

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/media/image54.png){width="7.175300743657043in"
height="1.4006178915135608in"}

KubeConfig
----------

**SOLUTION 1:** (Recommended)

**Retrieve kubeconfig file**

In the LDAP configuration we have 'visiondev' assigned to the 'pksdev'
group with a password \<password\>

> To obtain kubeconfig for a selected cluster and a user, run the
> following command:

NOTE: -k option used to avoid "missing certificate" warning

E.G. pks get-kubeconfig my-cluster -u naoimi -p \<password\> -a
pks.corp.local -k

This will generate kubeconfig file which can be distributed to Developer
to access the cluster.

Admin users can review user related context in the kubeconfig file using
**kubectl config get-contexts** command like shown below:

**END SOLUTION 1**

**SOLUTION 2:**

**Retrieve token for Developer**

In the LDAP configuration we have visiondev assigned to the pksdev group
with a password \<password\>

Copy the contents to a file getToken.sh

> Run getToken.sh
>
> ./getToken.sh

**Create kubeconfig File**

> Create the kube config file or Update an existing one with the id
> token and refresh token. (visiondev). If visiondev does not exist in
> your existing config file, add a new entry.
>
> Note : config file can be found under \~/.kube/config
>
> If it does not exist create one

**END SOLUTION 2**

[^1]: Local Only when using EPMC as all metadata is stored in EPMC

[^2]: Local Only when using EPMC as all metadata is stored in EPMC
